doc: add EN version of internal data structures (#2443)
juicedata/juicefs: docs/en/development/data_structures.md

---
# JuiceFS Internals

## 1. Introduction

This article introduces the main implementation details of JuiceFS, which is used as a reference for developers to understand and contribute open source code. The content corresponds to the JuiceFS code version v1.0.0 and the metadata version V1.

## 2. Keyword Definition

- File system: i.e. JuiceFS Volume, represents a separate namespace. Files can be moved freely within the same filesystem, while data copies are required between different filesystems.

> - Metadata engine: A component that stores and manages file system metadata, usually served by a database that supports transactions. There are three major categories of metadata engines that are currently supported.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Metadata engine: A component that stores and manages file system metadata, usually served by a database that supports transactions. There are mainly three categories of metadata engines currently supported by JuiceFS.
```

> - Metadata engine: A component that stores and manages file system metadata, usually served by a database that supports transactions. There are three major categories of metadata engines that are currently supported.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Metadata engine: is a component that stores and manages file system metadata, usually served by a database that supports transactions. There are three major categories of metadata engines that are currently supported.
```

  - Redis: Redis and various protocol-compatible services
  - SQL: MySQL, PostgreSQL, SQLite, etc.
  - TKV: TiKV, BadgerDB, etc.

> - Datastore: A component used to store and manage file system data, usually served by object storage, such as Amazon S3, Aliyun OSS, etc. It can also be served by other storage systems that are compatible with object storage semantics, such as local file systems, Ceph Rados, TiKV, etc.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Datastore: is a component used to store and manage file system data, usually served by object storage, such as Amazon S3, Aliyun OSS, etc. It can also be served by other storage systems that are compatible with object storage semantics, such as local file systems, Ceph Rados, TiKV, etc.
```

> - Client: There are various forms, such as mount process, S3 gateway, WebDAV server, Java SDK, etc.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Client: can be in various forms, such as mount process, S3 gateway, WebDAV server, Java SDK, etc.
```

> - File: This article refers to all types of files in general, including regular file, directory file, link file, device file, etc.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- File: It refers to all types of files in general in this documentation, including regular files, directory files, link files, device files, etc.
```

> - Directory: A special kind of file used to organize a file tree structure whose contents are an index to a set of other files.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Directory: is a special file used to organize the tree structure of a file, and its contents are an index to a set of other files.
```

Author: delete `of a file`

## 3. Metadata Structure

> File systems are usually organized into a tree structure, where nodes represent files and edges represent directory containment relationships. There are more than ten metadata structures in JuiceFS, most of which are used to maintain the file tree organization and properties of individual nodes, while the rest are used to manage system configuration, client sessions, asynchronous tasks, etc. All metadata structures are described below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
File systems are usually organized in a tree structure, where nodes represent files and edges represent directory containment relationships. There are more than ten metadata structures in JuiceFS. Most of them are used to maintain the organization of file trees and properties of individual nodes, while the rest are used to manage system configuration, client sessions, asynchronous tasks, etc. All metadata structures are described below.
```

Author: organization of file trees --> tree

### 3.1 General Structure

#### 3.1.1 Setting

It is created when the `juicefs format` command is executed, and some of its fields can be modified later by the `juicefs config` command. The structure is specified as follows.
```go
type Format struct {
	Name             string
	UUID             string
	Storage          string
	Bucket           string
	AccessKey        string `json:",omitempty"`
	SecretKey        string `json:",omitempty"`
	SessionToken     string `json:",omitempty"`
	BlockSize        int
	Compression      string `json:",omitempty"`
	Shards           int    `json:",omitempty"`
	HashPrefix       bool   `json:",omitempty"`
	Capacity         uint64 `json:",omitempty"`
	Inodes           uint64 `json:",omitempty"`
	EncryptKey       string `json:",omitempty"`
	KeyEncrypted     bool   `json:",omitempty"`
	TrashDays        int    `json:",omitempty"`
	MetaVersion      int    `json:",omitempty"`
	MinClientVersion string `json:",omitempty"`
	MaxClientVersion string `json:",omitempty"`
}
```

- Name: name of the file system, specified by the user when formatting
- UUID: unique ID of the file system, automatically generated by the system when formatting

> - Storage: short name of the object storage used to save data, such as s3, oss, etc.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Storage: short name of the object storage used to store data, such as s3, oss, etc.
```

- Bucket: the bucket path of the object storage
- AccessKey: access key used to access the object storage
- SecretKey: secret key used to access the object storage
- SessionToken: session token used to access the object storage, as some object storage supports the use of temporary token to obtain limited time permissions

> - BlockSize: size of the data block when splitting the file, the default is 4 MiB

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- BlockSize: size of the data block when splitting the file, 4 MiB by default
```

> - Compression: compression algorithm run before uploading the data block to the object storage, the default is no compression

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Compression: compression algorithm that is executed before uploading data blocks to the object storage (the default is no compression)
```

> - Shards: the number of buckets in the object storage, the default is only one bucket; when Shards > 1, data objects will be randomly hashed into Shards buckets

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Shards: number of buckets in the object storage, only one bucket by default; when Shards > 1, data objects will be randomly hashed into Shards buckets
```

> - HashPrefix: whether to set a hash prefix for the object name, the default is not set

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- HashPrefix: whether to set a hash prefix for the object name, false by default
```

- Capacity: quota limit for the total capacity of the file system
- Inodes: quota limit for the total number of files in the file system

> - EncryptKey: the encrypted private key of the data object, which is useful only if the data encryption function is enabled

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- EncryptKey: the encrypted private key of the data object, which can be used only if the data encryption function is enabled
```

- KeyEncrypted: whether the saved key is encrypted or not, by default the SecretKey, EncryptKey and SessionToken will be encrypted

> - TrashDays: number of days after which removed files will be permanently deleted, the default is 1 day

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- TrashDays: number of days the deleted files are kept in recycle bin, the default is 1 day
```

- MetaVersion: the version of the metadata structure, currently V1 (V0 and V1 are the same)
- MinClientVersion: the minimum client version allowed to connect, clients earlier than this version will be denied
- MaxClientVersion: the maximum client version allowed to connect

This structure is serialized into JSON format and stored in the metadata engine.

#### 3.1.2 Counter

Maintains the value of each counter in the system and the start timestamps of some background tasks, specifically

- usedSpace: used capacity of the file system
- totalInodes: number of used files in the file system
- nextInode: the next available inode number (in Redis, the maximum inode number currently in use)
- nextChunk: the next available sliceId (in Redis, the largest sliceId currently in use)
- nextSession: the maximum sid (sessionID) currently in use
- nextTrash: the maximum trash inode number currently in use

> - nextCleanupSlices: timestamp of the last check to clean up residual slices

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- nextCleanupSlices: timestamp of the last check on residual slices cleanup
```

> - lastCleanupSessions: timestamp of the last check to clean up stale sessions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- lastCleanupSessions: timestamp of the last check on the cleanup of stale session residuals
```

> - lastCleanupFiles: timestamp of the last check to clean up residual files

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- lastCleanupFiles: timestamp of the last check on the cleanup of residual files
```

> - lastCleanupTrash: timestamp of the last check to clean up the trash

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- lastCleanupTrash: timestamp of the last check on the cleanup of trash
```

#### 3.1.3 Session

Records the session IDs of clients connected to this file system and their timeouts. Each client sends a heartbeat message to update the timeout, and those who have not updated for a long time will be automatically cleaned up by other clients.

:::tip
Read-only clients cannot write to the metadata engine, so their sessions **will not** be recorded.
:::

#### 3.1.4 SessionInfo

> Records specific metadata about the client session so that it can be viewed with the `juicefs status` command. This is specified as

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Records specific metadata of the client session so that it can be viewed with the `juicefs status` command. This is specified as
```

```go
type SessionInfo struct {
	Version    string // JuiceFS version
	HostName   string // Host name
	MountPoint string // path to mount point. S3 gateway and WebDAV server are "s3gateway" and "webdav" respectively
	ProcessID  int    // Process ID
}
```

This structure is serialized into JSON format and stored in the metadata engine.

#### 3.1.5 Node

> Records information about the attributes of each file, as follows

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Records attribute information of each file, as follows
```

```go
type Attr struct {
	Flags     uint8  // reserved flags
	Typ       uint8  // type of a node
	Mode      uint16 // permission mode
	Uid       uint32 // owner id
	Gid       uint32 // group id of owner
	Rdev      uint32 // device number
	Atime     int64  // last access time
	Mtime     int64  // last modified time
	Ctime     int64  // last change time for meta
	Atimensec uint32 // nanosecond part of atime
	Mtimensec uint32 // nanosecond part of mtime
	Ctimensec uint32 // nanosecond part of ctime
	Nlink     uint32 // number of links (sub-directories or hardlinks)
	Length    uint64 // length of regular file

	Parent    Ino  // inode of parent; 0 means tracked by parentKey (for hardlinks)
	Full      bool // the attributes are completed or not
	KeepCache bool // whether to keep the cached page or not
}
```

> A few of the fields that need clarification.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are a few fields that need clarification.
```

> - Atime/Atimensec: set only when the file is created and when `SetAttr` is actively called, while accessing and modifying the file normally does not affect the Atime value

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Atime/Atimensec: can be set only when the file is created and when `SetAttr` is actively called, while accessing and modifying the file usually does not affect the Atime value
```

Author: delete `can be`, since the set is passive

- Nlink
  - Directory file: initial value is 2 ('.' and '..'), add 1 for each subdirectory
  - Other files: initial value is 1, add 1 for each hard link created
- Length
  - Directory file: fixed at 4096

>   - Soft link (symbolic link) file: length of the string of the path to which the link points

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Soft link (symbolic link) file: the string length of the path to which the link points
```

  - Other files: the length of the actual content of the file

This structure is usually encoded in binary format and stored in the metadata engine.

#### 3.1.6 Edges

> Records information about each edge in the file tree, as follows

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Records information on each edge in the file tree, as follows
```

```
parentInode, name -> type, inode
```

where parentInode is the inode number of the parent directory, and the others are the name, type, and inode number of the child files, respectively.

#### 3.1.7 LinkParent

Records the parent directory of some files. The parent directory of most files is recorded in the Parent field of the attribute; however, for files that have been created with hard links, there may be more than one parent directory, so the Parent field is set to 0, and all parent inodes are recorded independently, as follows

```
inode -> parentInode, links
```

> where links is the count of the parentInode, because multiple hard links can be created in the same directory, and these hard links share the inode.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
where links is the count of the parentInode, because multiple hard links can be created in the same directory, and these hard links share one inode.
```

#### 3.1.8 Chunk

> Records information about each Chunk, as follows

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Records information on each Chunk, as follows
```

```
inode, index -> []Slices
```

where inode is the inode number of the file to which the Chunk belongs, and index is the number of all Chunks in the file, starting from 0. The Chunk value is an array of Slices. Each Slice represents a piece of data written by the client, and is appended to this array in the order of writing time. When there is an overlap between different Slices, the later Slice is used.

```go
type Slice struct {
	Pos  uint32 // offset of the Slice in the Chunk
	ID   uint64 // ID of the Slice, globally unique
	Size uint32 // size of the Slice
	Off  uint32 // offset of valid data in this Slice
	Len  uint32 // size of valid data in this Slice
}
```

This structure is encoded and saved in binary format, taking up 24 bytes.

#### 3.1.9 SliceRef

Records the reference count of a Slice, as follows

```
sliceId, size -> refs
```

> Since the reference count of most Slice is 1, to reduce the number of related entries in the database, the actual value minus 1 is used as the stored count value in Redis and TKV. In this way, most of the Slices have a refs value of 0, and there is no need to create related entries in the database.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since the reference count of most Slices is 1, to reduce the number of related entries in the database, the actual value minus 1 is used as the stored count value in Redis and TKV. In this way, most of the Slices have a refs value of 0, and there is no need to create related entries in the database.
```

#### 3.1.10 Symlink

Records the location of the softlink file, as follows

```
inode -> target
```

#### 3.1.11 Xattr

Records extended attributes (Key-Value pairs) of a file, as follows

```
inode, key -> value
```

#### 3.1.12 Flock

Records BSD locks (flock) of a file, specifically.

```
inode, sid, owner -> ltype
```

where sid is the client session ID, owner is a string of numbers, usually associated with a process, and ltype is the lock type, which can be 'R' or 'W'.

#### 3.1.13 Plock

Record POSIX record locks (fcntl) of a file, specifically

```
inode, sid, owner -> []plockRecord
```

> Here plock is a more fine-grained lock that can lock only a certain segment of the file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here plock is a more fine-grained lock that can only lock a certain segment of a file.
```

```go
type plockRecord struct {
	ltype uint32 // lock type
	pid   uint32 // process ID
	start uint64 // start position of the lock
	end   uint64 // end position of the lock
}
```

This structure is encoded and stored in binary format, taking up 24 bytes.

#### 3.1.14 DelFiles

> Records the list of files to be cleaned. Since data cleanup of files is an asynchronous and potentially time-consuming operation that can be interrupted by other factors, it is tracked by this list.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Records the list of files to be cleaned. It may be needed as data cleanup of files is an asynchronous and potentially time-consuming operation that can be interrupted by other factors.
```

```
inode, length -> expire
```

where length is the length of the file and expire is the time when the file was deleted.

#### 3.1.15 DelSlices

> Records delayed deleted Slices. When the Trash feature is enabled, old Slices deleted by the Slice Compaction are kept for the same amount of time as the Trash configuration, to be available for data recovery if necessary.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Records delayed deleted Slices. When the Trash feature is enabled, old Slices deleted by the Slice Compaction will be kept for the same amount of time as the Trash configuration, to be available for data recovery if necessary.
```

```
sliceId, deleted -> []slice
```

> where sliceId is the ID of the new slice after compaction, deleted is the timestamp of the compaction, and the mapped value is the list of all old slices that were compacted, each slice encoding only the ID and size.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
where sliceId is the ID of the new slice after compaction, deleted is the timestamp of the compaction, and the mapped value is the list of all old slices that were compacted. Each slice only encodes its ID and size.
```

```go
type slice struct {
	ID   uint64
	Size uint32
}
```

This structure is encoded and stored in binary format, taking up 12 bytes.

#### 3.1.16 Sustained

Records the list of files that need to be kept temporarily during the session. If a file is still open when it is deleted, the data cannot be cleaned up immediately, but needs to be held temporarily until the file is closed.

```
sid -> []inode
```

where sid is the session ID and the mapped value is the list of temporarily undeleted file inodes.

### 3.2 Redis

The common format of keys in Redis is `${prefix}${JFSKey}`, where

- In standalone mode the prefix is an empty string, while in cluster mode it is a database number enclosed in curly braces, e.g. "{10}"
- JFSKey is the Key of different data structures in JuiceFS, which are listed in the subsequent subsections

In Redis Keys, integers (including inode numbers) are represented as decimal strings if not otherwise specified.

#### 3.2.1 Setting

- Key: `setting`
- Value Type: String
- Value: file system formatting information in JSON format

#### 3.2.2 Counter

- Key: counter name
- Value Type: String

> - Value: value of the counter, which is actually an integer

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Value: value of the counter, an integer
```

Author: need `actually`, cuz its type is String, while the value can be converted to an int

#### 3.2.3 Session

- Key: `allSessions`
- Value Type：Sorted Set

> - Value: all non-read-only sessions connected to this file system. In Set.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Value: all non-read-only sessions connected to this file system. In Set,
```

  - Member: session ID
  - Score: timeout point of this session

#### 3.2.4 SessionInfo

- Key: `sessionInfos`
- Value Type: Hash

> - Value: basic meta-information for all non-read-only sessions. In Hash.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Value: basic meta-information on all non-read-only sessions. In Hash,
```

  - Key: session ID
  - Value: session information in JSON format

#### 3.2.5 Node

- Key: `i${inode}`
- Value Type: String
- Value: binary encoded file attribute

#### 3.2.6 Edge

- Key: `d${inode}`
- Value Type: Hash

> - Value: all directory entries in this directory. In Hash.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Value: all directory entries in this directory. In Hash,
```

  - Key: file name
  - Value: binary encoded file type and inode number

#### 3.2.7 LinkParent

- Key: `p${inode}`
- Value Type: Hash
- Value: all parent inodes of this file. in Hash.
  - Key: parent inode
  - Value: count of this parent inode

#### 3.2.8 Chunk

- Key: `c${inode}_${index}`
- Value Type: List
- Value: list of Slices, each Slice is binary encoded with 24 bytes

#### 3.2.9 SliceRef

- Key: `sliceRef`
- Value Type: Hash

> - Value: the count value of all Slices to be recorded. In Hash.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Value: the count value of all Slices to be recorded. In Hash,
```

  - Key: `k${sliceId}_${size}`
  - Value: reference count of this Slice minus 1 (if the reference count is 1, the corresponding entry is generally not created)

#### 3.2.10 Symlink

- Key: `s${inode}`
- Value Type: String

> - Value: path pointed to by the symbolic link

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Value: path that the symbolic link points to
```

#### 3.2.11 Xattr

- Key: `x${inode}`
- Value Type: Hash

> - Value: all extended attributes of this file. In Hash.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Value: all extended attributes of this file. In Hash,
```

  - Key: name of the extended attribute
  - Value: value of the extended attribute

#### 3.2.12 Flock

- Key: `lockf${inode}`
- Value Type: Hash

> - Value: all flocks of this file. in Hash.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Value: all flocks of this file. In Hash,
```

  - Key: `${sid}_${owner}`, owner in hexadecimal
  - Value: lock type, can be 'R' or 'W'

#### 3.2.13 Plock

- Key: `lockp${inode}`
- Value Type: Hash

> - Value: all plocks for this file. in Hash.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Value: all plocks of this file. In Hash,
```

  - Key: `${sid}_${owner}`, owner in hexadecimal
  - Value: array of bytes, where every 24 bytes corresponds to a [plockRecord](#3.1.13-Plock)

#### 3.2.14 DelFiles

- Key：`delfiles`
- Value Type：Sorted Set

> - Value: list of all files to be cleaned. In Set.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Value: list of all files to be cleaned. In Set,
```

  - Member: `${inode}:${length}`
  - Score: the timestamp when this file was added to the set

#### 3.2.15 DelSlices

- Key: `delSlices`
- Value Type: Hash

> - Value: all Slices to be cleaned. in Hash.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Value: all Slices to be cleaned. In Hash,
```

  - Key: `${sliceId}_${deleted}`
  - Value: array of bytes, where every 12 bytes corresponds to a [slice](#3.1.15-DelSlices)

#### 3.2.16 Sustained

- Key: `session${sid}`
- Value Type: List

> - Value: list of files temporarily reserved in this session. In List.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Value: list of files temporarily reserved in this session. In List,
```
